Dear Eric,

I hope this finds you well. I'm writing for myself, Jasper Cooper, Alex Coppock, and Macartan Humphreys to gauge your interest in a book project.

With support from the Arnold Foundation, we have been working for the last two years on a large-scale project that introduces a structure to let social scientists fully characterize and assess the properties of research designs before they implement them. Our sense is that the basic contribution could have big effects on the way research is done in political science and maybe more broadly and we would love to have a flagship book at the heart of the project.

The audience we have in mind is first courses in research design for social science and public policy M.A. students, which would also make it appropriate for some Ph.D. and some advanced undergraduate courses. We also aim to make it useful as a standard desk reference for applied researchers in the social sciences.

The book would seek to help readers answer questions like:

1. What questions is my study honestly well-equipped to answer?
2. How do I choose between gathering less data on more units versus more data on fewer units?
3. If I'm right, how likely is it that my study will change the mind of a committed skeptic?
4. How sensitive are my findings to my assumptions?

These questions are surprisingly tricky to answer. A major part of the trouble is that we lack a definition of what constitutes a complete research design. The project helps researchers to decide on a metric of assessment, such as statistical power, value-for-money, or bias, and then to characterize their research design in sufficient detail to calculate that metric.

The book would apply this framework for common social science research designs, focused on those that aim to draw causal inferences. Each chapter would be anchored by a narrative theoretical section that includes interactive R Shiny modules to illustrate design tradeoffs. In addition, each chapter would include a "lab", demonstrating how to implement and learn about each design; and exercises that extend the lab using interactive assessment tools Swirl and/or DataCamp.

Currently there are really no books like this. There are textbooks that give broad principles for research design (such as those by King, Keohane, and Verba) and others on the statistical aspects of specific features of design, such as sampling and randomization. But there is nothing we know of that takes the design problem head on and provides practical tools to answer it.

Given the interactive nature of the book, we would love to explore creative ways of making a version of the manuscript and the tools available on an open access web site and if necessary explore funding models for this.

If this is of interest to you, we would be pleased to send you a chapter outline or a more substantial proposal of these ideas. We would be excited to work with you on this project.

Best,
