

Social scientific truths are usually not obvious. You usually can't tell why people fight, hold a particular belief, or vote just by asking them. "Common sense" won't usually help when trying to determine how social norms affect behavior, what effect public opinion has on legislators, or how competition changes incentives to coorperate. Learning about the world is *hard*. So hard, in fact, that we must devote considerable time and effort to the development of research designs. 

Research design is where the scientific process happens. After we've synthesized previous theory and evidence, after we've identified the question we *still* don't know the answer to, we're faced with the task of generating new evidence. If we have a good research design, it will be dispositive: If the study comes out one way, we will conclude X. If it comes out another way, we will conclude Y. 

Bad research designs often come out in such a way that we can't conclude anything. Those research designs are a waste. Bad studies with weak research designs generate murky evidence. If you've ever run such a study, you may recognize these three temptations:

1. put the results in the proverbial file drawer and forget them
2. torture the data until they "confess" and then cobble together some post-hoc theorizing to explain your "findings"
or
3. try to publish but fail because the study doesn't advance the state of knowledge.

The goal of this book is to save you the trouble of running bad studies. 

##

Flip to the research design section of most any empirical paper -- qualitative or quantitative, experimental or observational, survey-based or archival -- and you will find a jumble of specifics. The number of subjects, the details of a statistical model, the question wording, the reasons why alternative approaches are insufficient, the keyword search terms, the protocols for blinding researchers and participants. Different research communities have different ideas of what belongs in such a section, but there is rarely agreement even within single communities of what the standards are. 

A common piece of research design advice is, "Use the method that is best for your question." We don't disagree, but sometimes this advice is taken to mean that there is a good method for every question. 

We define research designs in the MIRA framework.  MIRA stands for model, inquiry, research strategy, answer strategy.

The model is the theoretical model of how the world works. It contains all the articulated and unarticulated assumptions and beliefs you hold about the world, the sum total of every piece of theory and evidence you've encountered. The model contains beliefs like, I bet partisanship is correlated with gun attitudes. I imagine that the response rate to my survey will be around 35%. There are potential outcomes.

The model makes guesses. 